---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Follow this guide in case you are experiencing unexpected behaviour or facing some errors in the module work.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-microscope
---

## Usage

Since Laravel Sanctum requires a specific configuration for your application, 
your production might work differently in comparison to a local development environment.

On this page, you can find a description of the most common issues raised on GitHub and 
how to solve them by adjusting either your Laravel or Nuxt application configurations.

## Common problems

First of all, if you experience any unexpected behaviour, we recommend enabling `logLevel: 5` in your `nuxt.config.ts` 
to get more details in SSR (server console) or CSR (browser console) output. 
For more details about logging, please refer to this page - [Logging](/advanced/logging).

In case of misconfiguration on either Nuxt or Laravel side, you may experience:
- Authentication state reset on page reload
- Difference between CSR and SSR state
- Errors while trying to log in
- Failing subsequent requests after successfully logging in

::tip
Before searching for a solution to your problem, we highly recommend double-checking your configuration 
and ensuring that the cache is cleared and your runtime reflects the latest changes.
::

## Known problems

Below you can find the description of the most popular issues, which were already resolved.

### Works on client-side (CSR), but not on server-side (SSR)

If you have SSR enabled, our module sends some of the requests on plugin initialisation before returning content to the client, 
which means we have to proxy some initial request data which might work differently on the server side. 
For example, to fetch user identity we are passing cookies from the initial client request.

::warning
Since CSR and SSR requests are sent from different environments, you have to ensure that your API 
is accessible from both of them and Laravel allow accepting requests from CSR/SSR hosts.
::

If you use a Docker container, make sure that the `sanctum.baseUrl` in your `nuxt.config.ts` is accessible 
from both your web browser and the Nuxt container. We recommend using a domain name as the name 
of the container in the virtual network to avoid side effects. 

::tip
You can check the example here - [breeze-api](https://github.com/manchenkoff/breeze-api/blob/main/docker-compose.yml#L2).
::

In case you use additional software to set up virtual domains for development purposes (e.g. Laravel Valet, Homestead, dnsmasq, etc), 
you may end up with incorrect DNS resolving by Node. We recommend to use `localhost` domain with different ports instead.

### Request blocked by CORS policy

Incorrect CORS configuration on the Laravel side can cause the following problem

::caution
Access to fetch at 'X' from origin 'Y' has been blocked by CORS policy:
The 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header has a value 'Z' that is not equal to the supplied origin. 
Have the server send the header with a valid value, or, if an opaque response serves your needs, 
set the request's mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.
::

In this case, your Nuxt application is calling API endpoint **X** from host **Y**, 
which is not the same as **Z** configured as `allowed_origins` in Laravel's `config/cors.php`.

If you are using Laravel Breeze, then adjusting `FRONTEND_URL` environment variable would be enough.

### Unable to load user identity from API (Code 500 / 403)

If Nuxt cannot retrieve user identity on plugin initialization, that means that either your API is not reachable 
or there is an endpoint misconfiguration.

For example, the following error means that `fetch` could not find a host with `laravel.test` URL due to network problems.

```
Unable to load user identity from API [GET] "https://laravel.test/api/user": <no response> fetch failed
```

You should double-check: 
- URL exists and is reachable, 
- schema is chosen correctly (*http/https*), 
- API port is set correctly (e.g. *80, 8080, 8000, 3000*)
- a Docker container is up and running (if applicable),
- `artisan serve` is using `localhost` instead of `127.0.0.1` (if applicable)

Also, while working locally with enabled SSL, you may face the following error:

```
[nuxt-auth-sanctum:ssr]  ERROR  Unable to load user identity from API [GET] "https://laravel.test/api/user": <no response> fetch failed
[cause]: fetch failed
[cause]: unable to verify the first certificate
```

To enable HTTPS protocol, you might need to set an environment variable `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0`.

### User is not authenticated on plugin initialization (Code 401)

With enabled logging, you can check your Nuxt logs to find errors and warnings about the reason for the 401 response. 
For example, if you see the following message there:

```
[nuxt-auth-sanctum:ssr]  WARN  [response] set-cookie header is missing
[nuxt-auth-sanctum:ssr] ⚙ User is not authenticated on plugin initialization, status: 401
```

then you should check your SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS environment variable on the Laravel side. 
If you have a domain different than your Nuxt application is hosted on, it can cause an issue.

### CSRF mismatch (Code 419)

In the logs you can see this entry - **`CSRF token mismatch, check your API configuration`**. 
This error usually occurs if your API returns a 419 status code, 
meaning Laravel expects a different cookie value which in most cases can be solved 
by adjusting the `SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS` or `SESSION_DOMAIN` environment variables in your Laravel application.

Keep in mind, that Laravel supports cookies only from the same TLD, meaning you cannot call your API from a different domain. 

For instance:
- frontend app - `https://myapp.com`
- backoffice app - `https://admin.myapp.com`
- Laravel API - `https://api.myapp.com`

In this setup, `SESSION_DOMAIN` should be `.myapp.com` and `SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS` should be `myapp.com,admin.myapp.com`.

::warning
If you want to use token authentication, make sure to remove your frontend application 
from stateful domains to avoid CSRF-check middleware.
::

### Missing headers in the API request

If you use `routeRules` and do not see Nuxt passing some of the expected headers to your Laravel API, 
it might be because of proxying behaviour, which is a bit different from the direct fetch request.

Make sure that you also define supported headers in your `nuxt.config.ts` like this:

```typescript [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    // ... other config

    routeRules: {
        '/backend/api/**': {
            proxy: {
                to: `http://laravel.test/api/**`,
                headers: { YOUR_HEADER: 'header_value' },
            }
        }
    }
})
```

If you could not find anything useful, 
please check the [Issues](https://github.com/manchenkoff/nuxt-auth-sanctum/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed) section on GitHub 
or feel free to [create a new one](https://github.com/manchenkoff/nuxt-auth-sanctum/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)!
